---
layout: post
title: Tutorial on NLP with Python
categories: Talks
---

I gave a tutorial at the (Mid-west Big Data Summer School 2018)[http://mbds.cs.iastate.edu/2018/], held at Iowa State University, USA. It is titled "Natural Language Processing with Python" and this post is just a quick summary of what I did, what I wanted to do etc. 

My original proposal for the talk looked something like this:

*"**Abstract**: Unstructured text data is everywhere, in the form of web pages, social media posts, news articles, blogs, and a lot of other documents. Natural Language Processing (NLP) deals with developing methods to solve various language processing problems involving these large  quantities of text data. Some examples of real-world problems where NLP is useful are: email spam classification, machine translation, question answering/search, automatically tagging content, identifying fake news etc. In this tutorial, we will learn about working with textual data using the state of the art methods in NLP and Python.  I will demonstrate the use of nltk and gensim libraries for processing text, and scikit-learn and keras libraries for building predictive models with the processed textual data. I will take text classification as my primary use case, and demonstrate how these tools enable us to build text classification models and use them in our own applications."*

However, as I started preparing, my ideas on what to keep kept changing. The following issues were in my mind:
- I have only 1.5 hours, it is not as if it is a full course or even a half-a-day tutorial. So, it would be difficult to squeeze in practicals.
- School is attended by people of diverse backgrounds - not necessarily engineers alone. I should keep it as relevant as possible. 
- I want the audience to take some thoughts home, I have been in such tutorials where I had no clue what is happening. I don't want to be such a speaker.

So, with those thoughts in mind, here are the final topics I decided upon:
- Overview of where NLP is used in some applications (a couple of videos)
- Different kinds of computational problems we should solve to be able to achieve language understanding
- Introduction to different NLP tasks with code examples.

For the third part, I chose the following tasks:
- Sentence and word segmentation
- Pattern extraction
- POS tagging
- Entity extraction, noun chunk extraction
- Parsing
- Language generation
- Text Classification   
I used python libraries: nltk, spacy, textgenrnn, tensorflow, keras, and sklearn in this process. All the relevant slides and code examples are [hosted on github](https://github.com/nishkalavallabhi/MBDS2018-NLPTutorial).

Considering that there was some discussion after the talk, and there were people who wanted to talk to me afterwards, I think it went on well. However, what I could have done better is this:
- Putting up information about required libraries/installations etc a few days earlier (I was moving between countries during this time - so I can excuse myself!!)
- Requesting for 2-2.5 hours instead of 1.5, and leaving some time open for open exercise sessions.  

Overall, I think coming up with a practical introduction to NLP for a 1.5 hour session is kind of challenging, but I am satisified with what I managed for a first time. I hope someone else who wants to do a similar tutorial in future will find this useful. 



